Update js-events.md - Round #1 (#38)
SymfonyCasts/lemon-squeezy: sfcasts/js-events.md

# Listening to LemonSqueezy Javascript Events

> Right now, every time we save a user's order to the corresponding LemonSqueezy customer ID, we're configuring our webhooks *locally*. Ngrok definitely helps, but it still a bit of a pain. We still need to run Ngrok in the background before we accept webhooks, *and* we still need to *update* the webhook URL every time we restart the Ngrok agent if we don't have a paid Ngrok plan. That's... not ideal.

Reviewer: Not slightly correct, we need something like this here:

```suggestion
Right now, every time we want to save a LemonSqueezy customer ID on the corresponding user entity *locally*, we have to configure our webhooks. Ngrok definitely helps, but it's still a bit of a pain. We still need to run Ngrok in the background before we start receiving webhooks, *and* we still need to *update* the webhook URL every time we restart the Ngrok agent if we don't have a paid Ngrok plan. That's... not ideal.
```

> Let's explore an *alternative* way to listen to LemonSqueezy JavaScrip events - setting the customer ID on a successful checkout. LemonSqueezy even has a special event for this! Open the docs, go to "Guides", find "Using Lemon.js" on the left, and on the right, click "Handling events".

Reviewer: Listening to LemonSqueezy *JavaScript* events IS already an alternative way

```suggestion
Let's explore an *alternative* way - listen to LemonSqueezy *JavaScript* events and set the customer ID on a successful checkout. LemonSqueezy even has a special event for this! Open the docs, go to "Guides", find "Using Lemon.js" on the left, and on the right, click on "Handling events".
```

Here, we can see that when the checkout's successful, LemonSqueezy fires a `Checkout.Success` event. They even give us some sample code for how to handle it. This returns a bunch of useful data, including the customer ID we're looking for.

## Listening to the LemonSqueezy `Checkout.Success` Event

> Time to get to work! Open `assets/controllers/lemon-squeezy_controller.js`. Look for the `connect()` method and, at the bottom, start with `window.LemonSqueezy.Setup()`. Inside, pass `eventHandler: (data) => {}`, and inside *that*, write `if (data.event === 'Checkout.Success')`. Now we need to get the customer ID with `data.data.customer_id` and put it on a `lsCustomerId` variable. We'll pass the ID to `this.#handleCheckout(lsCustomerId)`. This doesn't exist yet, but we'll create it in a moment. Finally, create the `#handleCheckout()` function with `lsCustomerId` and leave it empty for now. 

Reviewer: Probably wil lbe more fluent

```suggestion
Time to get to work! Open `assets/controllers/lemon-squeezy_controller.js`. Look for the `connect()` method and, at the bottom, start with `window.LemonSqueezy.Setup()`. Inside, pass `eventHandler: (data) => {}`, and inside *that*, write `if (data.event === 'Checkout.Success')`. Now we need to get the customer ID with `data.data.customer_id` and put it on a `lsCustomerId` variable. We'll pass the ID to `this.#handleCheckout()`. This doesn't exist yet, but we'll create it in a moment. Finally, create the `#handleCheckout()` function with `lsCustomerId` and leave it empty for now. 
```

## Adding a new Endpoint for Creating Checkout URL

Next, we need to create an endpoint in our app that will handle and save the customer ID for the user. To do that, open `src/Controller/OrderController.php` and create a new method: `public function handleCheckout()`. Register this `#[Route]` with a path - `/checkout/handle` - and call it `app_order_checkout_handle`. We want this method to *only* work for `POST` requests.

This needs a request and the current user, so inject `Request $request` and the `#[CurrentUser]` PHP attribute with `User $user`. We'll assume that the ID will be passed via a POST request as `lsCustomerId`, so we'll retrieve it from the request with `$request->request->get('lsCustomerId')`.

> Below, set it on the user with `$user->setLsCustomerId$lsCustomerId()`. To actually *save* it to the database, we also need to inject `EntityManagerInterface $entityManager` and, at the end, call `$entityManager->flush()`. Finish with `return $this->json([])`. We don't need to return actual data here - a successful response is enough.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below, set it on the user with `$user->setLsCustomerId($lsCustomerId)`. To actually *save* it to the database, we also need to inject `EntityManagerInterface $entityManager` and, at the end, call `$entityManager->flush()`. Finish with `return $this->json([])`. We don't need to return actual data here - a successful response is enough.
```

## Updating the Stimulus Controller

For the Stimulus controller, let's add a new value called `checkoutHandleUrl: String` and pass the URL from the template. To do that, in `templates/order/cart.html.twig`, add `data-lemon-squeezy-checkout-handle-url-value=""` and pass the URL with `{{ path('app_order_checkout_handle') }}`.

With the value set, back in the controller, let's make an AJAX call in `#handleCheckout()` using the `fetch()` method. Set it to `this.checkoutHandleUrlValue`. For options, use `method: 'POST'`, like we configured in our endpoint, and for headers, `'Content-Type': 'application/x-www-form-urlencoded'`. This allows us to receive values with `$request->request->get()` - no need to `json_decode()` the request.

> For the `body`, pass `new URLSearchParams()` and pass *that* to `lsCustomerId: lsCustomerId`. We'll also chain this `fetch()` call with `.then()`. Inside, we expect `response => {}`. If response is *not* okay, then throw a new `Error()` with a message:

Author: There's probably a way to reword this so we don't have the word "pass" pop up twice so close together. The emphasis on "that" helped break things up a little, but moving it to the end (even though it still makes logical sense) sounds a little weird to me. I'll let Kevin look at this.

`"Network response was not ok" + response.statusText`.

> Below, `return response.json()`. That will give us the decoded JSON object in the next `.then()`. Say `data => {}`, and inside, I'll just leave a comment reminding us that there's nothing to do here, because we don't return any data from that endpoint. *But*, just in case something goes wrong, we'll chain `.catch()` with `console.log('Fetch error:', error)`.

Author: Need to make sure this is accurate in the video portion too. I can't remember. If not, we might need to re-record.
